README.md, before:

# Plastik style

This is a fork of QPlastiqueStyle from qt5-styleplugins and a port to qt6.
----------------------

This project only works on linux

## Requirements

Extra-cmake-modules - for finding the qt plugin directory

### For QT5:
Qt 5.15 and CMake 3.16

### For Qt6:
Qt 6.2

## Build instructions
option ENABLE_ALL => enables Qt5 and Qt6 support *default on
option ENABLE_QT5 => enables Qt5 support (need to have -DENABLE_ALL=off)
option ENABLE_QT6 => enables Qt6 support (need to have -DENABLE_ALL=off)

e.g:o

    cmake -DENABLE_ALL=off -DENABLE_QT5 => builds only qt5 variant
    cmake -DENABLE_ALL=off -DENABLE_QT6 => builds only qt6 variant
    cmake => without any options both are build

### For normal build
    
    cd into cloned repo (usually PlastikStyle)
    

    cmake -B build -S ./ -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr

    cmake -B build --build

    make -B build --install

now select "Plastik" for both Qt5 and Qt6


currently this does not support DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX at all

### How to apply

#### Qt5: 
    - as normal via your qt5 supporting settings
    - via QT_STYLE_OVERRIDE=plastik

#### Qt6:
    - QT_STYLE_OVERRIDE=plastik  
    - via qt6ct by setting QT_QPA_PLATFORMTHEME=qt6ct and choosing plastik in qt6ct
    - apply through settings that support qt6 style

#### For both Qt5 and Qt6:
    - You can simply set QT_QPA_PLATFORMTHEME=qt5ct 
    - Setting QT_STYLE_OVERRIDE to plastik globally should work as well

## Installing
Currently installing with your package manager is only possible on opensuse and fedora

### Debian
currently debian and derivates do not have packages available, to install compile from source. To install the necessary dependencies install

        sudo apt install qt6-base-dev qtbase5-dev cmake make 

### OpenSUSE
add the zypper repository with :
        
        sudo zypper ar https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/MartinF99/openSUSE_Tumbleweed/ plastikstyle

then install the packages
PlastikStyle-qt5 and PlastikStyle-qt6

### Fedora 37 to 39
add the copr repository with :
        
        sudo dnf copr enable hazel-bunny/ports 

then install the packages :

        sudo dnf install plastikstyle

### Fedora 40 and above
add the copr repository with :
        
        sudo dnf copr enable hazel-bunny/ricing

then install the packages :

        sudo dnf install plastikstyle
        
### Archlinux

An archlinux PKGBUILD can be found on the AUR

- https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/plastikstyle-qt5 for qt5
- https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/plastikstyle-qt6 for qt6


## Colorscheme

Plastik Colorscheme credit goes to USRKL on pling: 
(found here)[https://www.pling.com/p/1001617/]

Commit message:

Add sources for RHEL and clones

README.md, after:

# Plastik style

This is a fork of QPlastiqueStyle from qt5-styleplugins and a port to qt6.
----------------------

This project only works on linux

## Requirements

Extra-cmake-modules - for finding the qt plugin directory

### For QT5:
Qt 5.15 and CMake 3.16

### For Qt6:
Qt 6.2

## Build instructions
option ENABLE_ALL => enables Qt5 and Qt6 support *default on
option ENABLE_QT5 => enables Qt5 support (need to have -DENABLE_ALL=off)
option ENABLE_QT6 => enables Qt6 support (need to have -DENABLE_ALL=off)

e.g:o

    cmake -DENABLE_ALL=off -DENABLE_QT5 => builds only qt5 variant
    cmake -DENABLE_ALL=off -DENABLE_QT6 => builds only qt6 variant
    cmake => without any options both are build

### For normal build
    
    cd into cloned repo (usually PlastikStyle)
    

    cmake -B build -S ./ -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr

    cmake -B build --build

    make -B build --install

now select "Plastik" for both Qt5 and Qt6


currently this does not support DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX at all

### How to apply

#### Qt5: 
    - as normal via your qt5 supporting settings
    - via QT_STYLE_OVERRIDE=plastik

#### Qt6:
    - QT_STYLE_OVERRIDE=plastik  
    - via qt6ct by setting QT_QPA_PLATFORMTHEME=qt6ct and choosing plastik in qt6ct
    - apply through settings that support qt6 style

#### For both Qt5 and Qt6:
    - You can simply set QT_QPA_PLATFORMTHEME=qt5ct 
    - Setting QT_STYLE_OVERRIDE to plastik globally should work as well

## Installing
Currently installing with your package manager is only possible on opensuse and fedora

### Debian
currently debian and derivates do not have packages available, to install compile from source. To install the necessary dependencies install

        sudo apt install qt6-base-dev qtbase5-dev cmake make 

### OpenSUSE
add the zypper repository with :
        
        sudo zypper ar https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/MartinF99/openSUSE_Tumbleweed/ plastikstyle

then install the packages
PlastikStyle-qt5 and PlastikStyle-qt6

### Fedora
Add the copr repository with :
        
        sudo dnf copr enable hazel-bunny/ricing

Then install the packages :

        sudo dnf install plastikstyle

### RHEL and clones versions 10 and greater
For Qt 5 support, enable the [EPEL repository](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/install-epel-linux) if it's not already enabled

Add the copr repository with :
        
        sudo dnf copr enable hazel-bunny/ricing

Then install the packages :

        sudo dnf install plastikstyle
           
### Archlinux

An archlinux PKGBUILD can be found on the AUR

- https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/plastikstyle-qt5 for qt5
- https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/plastikstyle-qt6 for qt6


## Colorscheme

Plastik Colorscheme credit goes to USRKL on pling: 
(found here)[https://www.pling.com/p/1001617/]
